well joining us now from inside the
University campus is todak Kenny shawa
he's a former Columbia University
graduate student and he's now a policy
fellow at Al Shabaka that's a
Palestinian policy Think Tank welcome to
Al jazer can you tell us what you saw
while you were on the grounds of
Columbia
University yes of course uh thank you
for having me on first of all um so I
was just at the the encampment in front
of Butler Library and after um warning
students that they were going to move in
they finally did and they carried out at
least 30 arrests I believe um and and
since they've carried out the arrests um
additional hundreds of additional
students have come to the have come to
the um the west lawn in front of Butler
Library and have taken it over instead
um so it looks like this this arrest
campaign is actually galvanized a lot of
the a lot of the other Columbia students
to come out and support of uh students
who have been arrested by the NYPD and
are currently being taken how many
students would you say are out there
right now in these encampments and these
protests it should be uh nearly either
nearly a thousand or several thousand
now there's there's there's a couple
hundred when I when I uh came inside um
but again it looks like the there's been
you know there's been a call to a call
to action um by quad by SJP by jbp and
other um uh and other student groups for
other Columbia students to come to
campus and it looks like again it's it's
really galvanizing a lot of people so
right now there's hundreds if not
potentially thousands of students out
there what are the students calling
for their demands are are simple um you
know they're they're calling for the
University to do more to support a ceas
fire to call for a ceas fire in Gaza but
they're also calling to the university
to divest from uh companies that profit
from uh the occupation and the
oppression of Palestinians um and
they've made their demands uh extremely
clear over the over the past months and
in years actually there's been multiple
uh divestment votes that have succeeded
and passed in which uh the majority of
the student body has called for
divestment from these investments in
Israeli companies or companies that
profit from the Israeli occupation but
the university unfortunately continues
to ignore the Democratic will of their
own students um and as long as they do
so um it looks like the students are GNA
are going to remain out protesting and
and and demanding uh that their
Democratic will be respected all right
to Kenn shwa thank you so much for
speaking to us from New
York thank
you make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from alaz